README.md, before:

# What is Orbital?

Orbital is an HTTP mocking framework that enables teams to achieve rapid software development and testing. Orbital supports mocking services by using OpenAPI Specifications files in either YAML or JSON format.

The framework is composed of two entities: the Orbital Designer and the Orbital Server. The Designer is a web-based workspace that allows for quick creation and modification of mock scenarios using the desired OpenAPI Specification file. The Designer can be used to export the mock scenarios to the Server. Besides accepting and storing service mock definitions, the Server is capable of of intercepting HTTP requests and response with the best response based on the saved mock scenarios. The Server also has reserved Admin endpoints to provide the ability to add, edit, delete mock definition files.

# Why should you use Orbital?

Orbital allows for parallel development between front-end and back-end teams by reducing the dependency of the front-end on the back-end.

Normally, creating a back-end API takes many days, if not weeks. During this time, front-end developers have changing API contracts, and have to develop against a moving target.

## Features

- GUI Editor: an easy-to-use web-editor that allows developers to create mocks in minutes
- Export to Server: directly export your mocks to Orbital Server
- OpenAPI compliant: mocks are created using the OpenAPI v2.0 specification
- Pipeline: each API filter is isolated, allowing for greater security, and better error and load handling
- Easy to deploy: just two docker containers

# Getting Started

**Note: Orbital uses an in-memory datastore. Please save or export all data (via Export to File or Export to Server) before exiting, otherwise it will be lost.**

It's very easy to get started; just [download the Docker Engine for Linux, Mac, and Windows](https://hub.docker.com/?overlay=onboarding):

## Using Docker

`docker run -p 4200:80 focisolutions/orbitaldesigner`

`docker run -p 5000:80 focisolutions/orbitalmock`

The mock definition designer will be running on `http://localhost:4200`, and the server on `http://localhost:5000`.

## Using Docker Compose

Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

`git clone https://github.com/FociSolutions/Orbital.git`

`cd Orbital`

`docker-compose build`

`docker-compose up -d`

The mock definition designer will be running on `http://localhost:4200`, and the server on `http://localhost:5001`.

# Build From the source

## Requirements

If you're running Linux, you'll need:

- the [Linux .NET 2.2 SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux-package-managers)
- the [Linux npm and the NodeJS package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
- git via `apt-get install git`

If you're running Windows, you'll need:

- the [Windows .NET 2.2 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/thank-you/sdk-2.2.100-windows-x64-installer)
- the [Windows npm and the NodeJS package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- the Git [.exe installer for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

## Clone

`git clone https://github.com/FociSolutions/Orbital.git`

## Server

`cd Orbital/src/Orbital.Mock.Server`

`dotnet run` (defaults to http://localhost:5000)

## Designer

`cd Orbital/src/orbital-designer/src`

`npm install`

`npm run build`

`npm run start` (defaults to http://localhost:4200)

# How to use the Orbital Designer

## Create a new mock

1. Go to the [Orbital Designer homepage](http://localhost:4200) and click **"Create New Mock"**.

2. Enter in a title and description for the new mock.

3. Click **"Select File"** and provide a valid OpenAPI YAML file. For this guide, [OpenAPI Pet Store](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/examples/v2.0/yaml/petstore.yaml) is used. Download this file and provide it to the file selector.

4. Click **"Next"**.

5. The following endpoint view page will be displayed:

![Endpoint Editor View](/readme_images/endpointoverview.png)

This page will display all endpoints defined in the uploaded YAML file. On the right of each row, the number of existing scenarios are indicated.

The next step in this guide will be to create a new scenario.

### What is a Scenario?

The purpose of a scenario is to describe what the endpoint will expect from the user's HTTP request and the response the user should expect from the endpoint. A scenario consists of:

- **Metadata**: A title and description to explain the purpose of the scenario.
- **Request Match Rules**: These rules will indicate what the user's HTTP request has to match to get a response from the server.
- **Response**: The server's response to the user's HTTP request.

### Create a Scenario

1. Select the endpoint GET/pets. The scenario overview page will be shown.

2. Click **"+"** on the bottom right to add a new scenario.

3. Start by filling the **"General"** section. Give the new scenario a name and description. The name is required.
   ![New Scenario General](/readme_images/newScenarioGeneral.png)

4. Click **"Request"** and then select **"Header Match Rules"**. Enter in _"Content-Type"_ as the key and _"application/json"_ as the value.

5. Click **"+"** next to the value to add it as a header rule. The rule will appear below.
   ![Header Match Rule](/readme_images/headerMatchRule.png)

6. A response has to be defined for this header rule. Click **Response** and enter in the text as shown below. In this example, the server will return a `200` with the following response:
   ![New Scenario Response](/readme_images/newScenarioResponse.png)

7. Click **"Save"**.

8. Click **"Back to Endpoints"** to continue to the next step and click **"Confirm"**. The new scenario will be listed in the scenario view page.

### Export Mock to Orbital Server

To test the new scenario, the mock has to be exported to the Orbital Server. Click "Export to Server" in the menu bar, then type in **"http://localhost:5000/api/v1/OrbitalAdmin"** as the URL. Select the mock definition(s) that you would like to export on the left-hand side and click `>` to move them to the pending export view. Then, click **"Upload"** to upload the definitions.

If the upload is successful, the message _"Mockdefinition successfully uploaded to server"_ will appear.

### Test the Scenario

For this example, the following postman request is used:

![Postman](/readme_images/postmanRequest.png)

This request complies with the header rule created previously. After sending it to the server, the following is the response we get back:

![Postman Response](/readme_images/postmanResponse.png)

Commit message:

Added link to demo project in readme

README.md, after:

# What is Orbital?

Orbital is an HTTP mocking framework that enables teams to achieve rapid software development and testing. Orbital supports mocking services by using OpenAPI Specifications files in either YAML or JSON format.

The framework is composed of two entities: the Orbital Designer and the Orbital Server. The Designer is a web-based workspace that allows for quick creation and modification of mock scenarios using the desired OpenAPI Specification file. The Designer can be used to export the mock scenarios to the Server. Besides accepting and storing service mock definitions, the Server is capable of of intercepting HTTP requests and response with the best response based on the saved mock scenarios. The Server also has reserved Admin endpoints to provide the ability to add, edit, delete mock definition files.

# Why should you use Orbital?

Orbital allows for parallel development between front-end and back-end teams by reducing the dependency of the front-end on the back-end.

Normally, creating a back-end API takes many days, if not weeks. During this time, front-end developers have changing API contracts, and have to develop against a moving target.

## Features

- GUI Editor: an easy-to-use web-editor that allows developers to create mocks in minutes
- Export to Server: directly export your mocks to Orbital Server
- OpenAPI compliant: mocks are created using the OpenAPI v2.0 specification
- Pipeline: each API filter is isolated, allowing for greater security, and better error and load handling
- Easy to deploy: just two docker containers

# Demo Project

Foci has published a sample project that exemplifies the intended usage of Orbital within a development team to allow for parallel development of the front-end and back-ends based on an OpenAPI contract.

The project is available on github [here](https://github.com/FociSolutions/Orbital-Demo).

# Getting Started

**Note: Orbital uses an in-memory datastore. Please save or export all data (via Export to File or Export to Server) before exiting, otherwise it will be lost.**

It's very easy to get started; just [download the Docker Engine for Linux, Mac, and Windows](https://hub.docker.com/?overlay=onboarding):

## Using Docker

`docker run -p 4200:80 focisolutions/orbitaldesigner`

`docker run -p 5000:80 focisolutions/orbitalmock`

The mock definition designer will be running on `http://localhost:4200`, and the server on `http://localhost:5000`.

## Using Docker Compose

Install [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

`git clone https://github.com/FociSolutions/Orbital.git`

`cd Orbital`

`docker-compose build`

`docker-compose up -d`

The mock definition designer will be running on `http://localhost:4200`, and the server on `http://localhost:5001`.

# Build From the source

## Requirements

If you're running Linux, you'll need:

- the [Linux .NET 2.2 SDK](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/install/linux-package-managers)
- the [Linux npm and the NodeJS package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
- git via `apt-get install git`

If you're running Windows, you'll need:

- the [Windows .NET 2.2 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/thank-you/sdk-2.2.100-windows-x64-installer)
- the [Windows npm and the NodeJS package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
- the Git [.exe installer for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win)

## Clone

`git clone https://github.com/FociSolutions/Orbital.git`

## Server

`cd Orbital/src/Orbital.Mock.Server`

`dotnet run` (defaults to http://localhost:5000)

## Designer

`cd Orbital/src/orbital-designer/src`

`npm install`

`npm run build`

`npm run start` (defaults to http://localhost:4200)

# How to use the Orbital Designer

## Create a new mock

1. Go to the [Orbital Designer homepage](http://localhost:4200) and click **"Create New Mock"**.

2. Enter in a title and description for the new mock.

3. Click **"Select File"** and provide a valid OpenAPI YAML file. For this guide, [OpenAPI Pet Store](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/examples/v2.0/yaml/petstore.yaml) is used. Download this file and provide it to the file selector.

4. Click **"Next"**.

5. The following endpoint view page will be displayed:

![Endpoint Editor View](/readme_images/endpointoverview.png)

This page will display all endpoints defined in the uploaded YAML file. On the right of each row, the number of existing scenarios are indicated.

The next step in this guide will be to create a new scenario.

### What is a Scenario?

The purpose of a scenario is to describe what the endpoint will expect from the user's HTTP request and the response the user should expect from the endpoint. A scenario consists of:

- **Metadata**: A title and description to explain the purpose of the scenario.
- **Request Match Rules**: These rules will indicate what the user's HTTP request has to match to get a response from the server.
- **Response**: The server's response to the user's HTTP request.

### Create a Scenario

1. Select the endpoint GET/pets. The scenario overview page will be shown.

2. Click **"+"** on the bottom right to add a new scenario.

3. Start by filling the **"General"** section. Give the new scenario a name and description. The name is required.
   ![New Scenario General](/readme_images/newScenarioGeneral.png)

4. Click **"Request"** and then select **"Header Match Rules"**. Enter in _"Content-Type"_ as the key and _"application/json"_ as the value.

5. Click **"+"** next to the value to add it as a header rule. The rule will appear below.
   ![Header Match Rule](/readme_images/headerMatchRule.png)

6. A response has to be defined for this header rule. Click **Response** and enter in the text as shown below. In this example, the server will return a `200` with the following response:
   ![New Scenario Response](/readme_images/newScenarioResponse.png)

7. Click **"Save"**.

8. Click **"Back to Endpoints"** to continue to the next step and click **"Confirm"**. The new scenario will be listed in the scenario view page.

### Export Mock to Orbital Server

To test the new scenario, the mock has to be exported to the Orbital Server. Click "Export to Server" in the menu bar, then type in **"http://localhost:5000/api/v1/OrbitalAdmin"** as the URL. Select the mock definition(s) that you would like to export on the left-hand side and click `>` to move them to the pending export view. Then, click **"Upload"** to upload the definitions.

If the upload is successful, the message _"Mockdefinition successfully uploaded to server"_ will appear.

### Test the Scenario

For this example, the following postman request is used:

![Postman](/readme_images/postmanRequest.png)

This request complies with the header rule created previously. After sending it to the server, the following is the response we get back:

![Postman Response](/readme_images/postmanResponse.png)
